supervision: new group (#9)
freebsd/meetings: supervision/README.md

# Supervision Workgroup

The goal of the group is improving FreeBSD in the following areas:

- process tracking
- process resource control
- process confinment
- process supervision
- service management
- tools and languages for the above

## Process Tracking

> Process tracking is how do we reliably track the state of the process, such

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Process tracking is how we reliably track the state of process, such that we can always say if the process is up or down.
```

> that we can always say if the process is up or down (example: linux PID

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example: Linux PID namespace, tracked but not confined.
cgroups also fit in, if we forget for a moment that cgroups are also resource management tools.
```

namespace, tracked but not confined. cgroups also fit in, if we forget for a

> moment that cgroups are also resource management tools)

Reviewer: Solaris contracts https://illumos.org/man/5/contract might be worth mentioning, too

## Process Resource Control

> Process resource control is how do we make sure that process consumes no

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Process resource control is how we ensure that a process consumes no more than the allocated amount of resources.
```

> more than allocated amount of resources (example: rctl, cgroups).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example: [`rctl(8)`](https://man.freebsd.org/rctl(8)), cgroups.
```

Resource control relies on process tracking.

## Process Confinment

> Process confinement is how do we run a process in a deterministic sandbox,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Process confinement is how we run a process in a deterministic sandbox, such that the process has no way of escaping, and only is allowed access to a pre-defined environment (files,
network interfaces, etc)
```

that process has no way of escaping (example: chroot, confined but not
tracked) and only allows access to a pre-defined environment (files,

> network interfaces, etc,)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example: chroot, confined but not
tracked.
```

What does not tracked mean in this context?

Process Confinment requries reliable tracking.

## Process Supervision

Process supervision answers the following questions:

> - How do we make sure that process is always is in desired state?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- How do we ensure that a process is always in a desired state?
```

- What types of supervised processes are there?
- Did the process exit successfully or do we need to restart it?
- How do we reliably and repeatably start and stop the process?

Process supervision requries reliable tracking.

## Service Management

> Service management is how do we bring groups of processes or  the whole system

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Service management is how we bring groups of processes or the whole system into the desired state.
```

> into the desired state, what services and processes need to be up, in what

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This in turn requires knowing:
- which services and processes need to be up, in what order?
```

> order. How to transition between system states reliably?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- how to transition reliably between system states?
```

Service managemement requires process supervision

# Tools and Languages

Shell, Lua, C

# Existing Supervision-Related Tools

Existing tools and their respective problems:

Tool      | Tracking | Confinment | Resource Control | Supervision
----------|----------| -----------|------------------|-------------
chroot    | No       | limited: only mount namespace| No | No
jail      | JID      | Strong     | via rctl         | No
daemon    | parent/child | No     | No               | very basic
rctl      | imperfect| No         | Yes              | No

> login classes| imperfect | No     | Yes + Rctl       | Now

Reviewer: ```suggestion
login classes| imperfect | No     | Yes + Rctl       | No
```

> process groups| imperfect| No     | No               | Now

Reviewer: ```suggestion
process groups| imperfect| No     | No               | No
```
